A dynamical model for the distribution of dark matter and gas in galaxy clusters (https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2966.2004.07775.x)
This paper is good for collecting more sources about understanding how to get the distribution, however, their paper models the distribution in ways that we cannot. The coarse-grained phase space density function does not work unless you have a velocity dispersion function which is impossible to get without spectroscopy. This is because we would need the spectroscopic redshift to find the velocities of each galaxy in the cluster. This function tells us the distribution of DM(Dark Matter) with respeect to position and velocity. If the density is high, DM particles are close to each other spatially and have similar velocities. The distribution we want is the spatial density, which tells us how DM is distributed around the cluster currently, but will not tell us how the system changes over time. Not super relevant to us but thought I would write it out as it may be useful for report writing e.g. in the discussion section we could say that while we have a spatial distribution, to get a full view of how the system evolves over time we would need to perform spectroscopy on the galaxy.
Another point to note is that this paper accounts for the ICM (intracluster medium) which is a hot plasma which affects the dynamics of the DM system. Again, I dont think this is super relevant to our project as this requires observations using X-rays.

Weak gravitational lensing Matthias Bartelmann, Matteo Maturi(2016)(https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1612.06535)
This paper gives an excellent overview of one method of finding the spaitial density function of a DM halo using the NFW method which is commonly used in modern astrophysics. This method only works if we can find background galaxies that are being weakly lensed by the cluster. We find the ellipticity of these lensed background galaxies to find the shear. From this, we can find the mass distribution and fit this to a NFW profile which will tell us the density of DM as a function of distance from the centre of the cluster. 
A couple things to note here, I'm not entirely sure how we go from ellipticity to shear to finding the mass. Hopefully some other papers can enlighten me on how to do this. I'm not sure how to find the ellipticity either from our data. There might be an easy way to code this, but I'm not sure. Lastly, this method entirely depends on there being weakly lensed background galaxies in the first place. There is another method an the next paper below should show this method.


Stellar mass-to-light ratios and the Tully-Fisher relation (https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.astro-ph/0011493)

Tully-Fisher Relation (https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2310.16053)
